NETID:  <your netid here>


1. Describe the contents of an IP packet and for each field describe the
purpose it serves.

Version Number: 4 bit specify the IP version. example IPv4, IPv6
Header length : 4 bits Packet may contain header of variable length due to optional
fields
Type of Service : 4 bits. type of service for which the packet should give
priority.
Datagram Length : 16 bits. Total length of the packet.
Identifier Tag : 16 bits. Help to identify the fragmented packets of same
packet.
Flags:  3 bits. Dont Fragment and More Fragment flags.
Fragmentation Offset: 3 bits. Identify the position of fragment.
TTL : 8 bits. To make sure packet not circulate forever in network.
Protocol : 8 bits. To identify the upper layer protocol. Example: TCP, UDP,
ICMP
Header Checksum: 16 bits. To identify the bit errors.	
Source IP address : 32 bits. The IP address of sender. Helps receiver identify
the source.
Destination IP address : 32 bits. The IP address of receiver. Helps source to
address the destination.

2. Describe the general operation of the BGP protocol.

Border gateway protocol is the inter-AS routing protocol.
It helps AS to obtain subnet reachability information from neighboring ASs,
propogare reachability information to all internal routers in AS and aslo to
determine the good routes to subnet based on the reaschability information and
AS policy.



3. Describe why the ethernet protocol necessitates a minimum packet size.

To identify the collision. Monitoring the collision will become defiicuilt as
very small packets would undetectable.

4. Describe how TCP reacts to congestion in the network.  Assume that
congestion is brought on by BGP reconfiguring the path such that TCP
packets now go through a bottleneck link of capacity B packets/second.
Describe in detail what TCP will do when faced with this bottleneck.

TCP will limit in sending rate if it detects a lost packet.
TCP will do a multiplicative decrease and as slow start it will do additivie
increase untill it detects next lost packet


5. Describe TCP's behavior when it is first getting started delivering data
over a high latency, high-bandwidth channel such as a satellite link. Be
sure to explain how TCP manages its window size during the initial
connection setup.

Slow Start:
The value of congestion window increases by 1 MSS every time a transmitted
data is acknowledged. Once it detects duplicate acks it will do congestion
avoidance and try to do a fast recovery.


6. On an ethernet segment, the ARP protocol is used to locate the ethernet
address of a host whose IP address is known. On the Internet, DNS is
used to locate the IP address of a host whose name is known. ARP and
DNS are drastically different -- the former uses a broadcast mechanism
while the latter implements a scalable, distributed database. Explain
why DNS was designed the way it was, and not, for instance, based on
a simple broadcast.

Internet is very big, so bradcating and waitng for signal might take time.
DNS is a distributed database where name-Ip information is saved in serval
servers helping to find the destination faster by pointing one domain server
to other.
Whereas, link layer ethernet network are small in number when compared to
Internet and hence ARP is used to broadcast and resolve the MAC address. 


7. Describe the two means by which a DNS name, such as www.cnn.com, is
resolved.

1)The user machine runs the client side DNS.
2)Browser will extract the host name www.cnn.com and will pass it to the DNS
application.
3)DNS client application will send the query containing hostname to DNS
server.
4) 
a) The DNS server will reply the client with IP address of host.
b) If the DNS server does not have the IP informatio, it will request other
DNS server to resolve the hostname.
5)Once received the IP address, browser will initiate the TCP connection to
the HTTP server process. 


8. What is a DNS local resolver?

Local DNS resolver does not strictly belong to heirarchy of DNS servers.
ISPs such as University, Academic Department has DNS local resolver, When host
connects to ISP, the ISP provided the host with one or more of its local DNS
servers. It acts as proxy for the host which tries to connect to the ISP.


9. What purpose does the ACK # serve in TCP?

ACK # is the sequence number of the packet that Receiver is expecting.
The ACK # helps sender to confirm that all the packets before this was
successfull.


10. What purpose does the destination port number serve in UDP?


Popular applications are assigned with certain port numbers. To identify the
application for which the UDP is serving, destination port number is added in
UDP. example, SQL, HTTP etc...

11. Why does UDP include a checksum? Wouldn't the end-to-end argument
require that all checksums be performed at the application level, and
hence argue that UDP and TCP elide such additional checksums in the
network stack?

UDP is not a reliable protocal like TCP.
To identify any packet loss or bit errors, it needs checksum for detection.


12. Imagine that a mail server on host A has just received a TCP/IP SYN
packet destined for it. Describe everything that happens to this packet
from the point of its reception by the network interface card to the point
of its delivery to the mail server.

Physical layer will receive the packet. packet is sent to link layer.
CRC is verified at Link Layer. The IP datagram is sent to Network layer.
In Network layer, IP headers are read and packets are identified as per their
identification number field(in case of fragmentation). data devoid of IP
header is sent to uppler Transport layer which is TCP.
From the destination port in the TCP header, the application layer is
identified. After checksum is perform, the TCP payload is sent to SMTP
application layer.


13. In IPv6, why do routers not fragment packets? How does IPv6 deal with
the issue of Maximum Transmission Unit?
 
Since, fragmentation and reassembly is a time consuming operation. By, placing
these operations on end systems, IP forwarding within the network sppeds up.
In IPv6, if router receives a big packet, router  will drop the packet and
will send a "Packet too big" ICMP error message. Sender can resend the data
using smalled datagram packets.


14. What is the difference between a web proxy and a vpn? When would it
be advantageous to use a proxy instead of a vpn?
   
web proxy is a computer that acts as a intermediary between user's computer
and internet. Traffic router through proxy will appear to come from proxy's IP
address concealing user's identity.
VPN is an encryped tunnel between user's computer and host server. Other than
the ISP providing the service, nobody can view the user's activity.
web proxy will be advantageous when the reason for concealing the identity is
not worthy enough to setup VPN which is very costly when compared to VPN

